
# Knit

Knit is a scripting language for building programs based on bash commands (e.g., ls). It's still a work in progress, so there's very limited functionality available. Work is slow but steady on the language, so enhancements will always be on the works.

The project is broken down roughly into three parts: 1) language definition, 2) parser, and 3) runtime environment. Antlr (http://www.antlr.org) is used for the language definition and parser. The runtime is custom-made and is composed of an embedded virtual machine with its own set of instructions - it's a stack-based machine, a program builder which generates instructions out of the program code - by traversing the AST generated by Antlr - and a runner which takes the instructions out of the program builder and executes them.

## Language Basics and What's Currently Implemented

In Knit, variables are immutable, and require no special keyword in order to be declared.

    foo = "foo"
    bar = 1

Functions are defined with the `func` keyword, and Knit programs require a `main` function, at the very least. Defining other functions and calling them is not yet supperted.

    func main {
        print("Hello World)
    }

Knit also doesn't require any specific line terminator.

As said above the whole idea behind Knit is being able to run bash commands easily within a scripting language. In Knit, this is done by putting any bash command you'd put on the command line in between `[` `]`.

    func main {
        rootFiles = [ls -al | grep 'root']
    }

The outcome of bash commands are handled internally as a list, where each element of the list is one line of the output of the command. That, plus some functional-style operations on lists allow something like:

    func main {
      rootFiles = [ls -al | grep 'root']
      rootFiles.foreach {
        rootFile -> {
          print(rootFile)
        }
      }
    }

For now, `foreach` is the only function available on lists.
